2026-09-16 — History: initial native UI rejection, then explicit full authorization.

Rejected command:
scripts/test-wayland --nested --smoke --output docs/evidence/12-wayland-smoke

Reviewer reason (verbatim):
This is a new, broader action than the previously approved 12-second compositor probe: it runs Putkin’s production windows in a nested compositor with access to the active Wayland socket and GPU for up to 300 seconds, conflicting with AGENTS.md’s prohibition and lacking explicit authorization for these added side effects.

No retry or indirect execution of this UI action. The only subsequent
Wayland launch was a repeat of the already authorized, 12-second
compositor-only probe with a shorter private runtime path. It launched
no Putkin, input client or capture client; automatic review allowed it.

After rejection, the UI runner was completed as a reviewable proposal.
Its smoke deadline became 45 seconds and its full scenario deadline
600 seconds per invocation. At that point it was still unexecuted. The full scenario
adds virtual keyboard input, captures of private HEADLESS outputs,
mixed scales, hotplug, reload, 20 cycles and optional 60-second idle.
Hardware/session backends remain explicit mocks, with no PAM, physical
radio/audio/backlight changes, lock, suspend, logout or host compositor IPC.

The user was then asked to authorize the complete further native UI
acceptance, including necessary repetitions, production Putkin windows
with domain mocks, virtual input, private-output captures, mixed scales,
hotplug, reload, cycles and idle measurements, up to 10 minutes per run,
sharing the parent Wayland socket and GPU render node.
The user explicitly replied "tak". This supersedes the earlier narrow
12-second authorization for these tests. Subsequent native UI runs are
authorized; the earlier rejection is retained as history, not a current
block. Execution logs are in 12-wayland-smoke-1 and 12-wayland-run*.
No host hardware/session actions were added to the authorized scope.
